Travelling along one of Canada’s most remote coastlines, it’s easy to see why generations of artists have sought refuge here. With its rich Haida heritage, dramatic ancient forests, windswept beaches and tight-knit communities, the Haida Gwaii island chain has long attracted carvers, painters, poets and musicians from around the world. Today, their numbers seem disproportionate to the islands’ combined population of just 5,000 people.    While this creative set has fostered a dynamic art scene – rich in contemporary and native influences with works accessible at local galleries such as Ben Davidson’s gallery, All About U Arts, in Skidegate – it wasn’t always easy, especially for visitors, to locate Haida Gwaii artists whose studios are often tucked away in private enclaves known only to the artists and their circle of friends.  A new online directory showcasing artists and their creative works, available on gohaidagwaii.ca, has changed that. The listings, available digitally or downloadable as a PDF, provide visitors with the means to connect one-on-one with artists, many of them welcoming guests into their studios to see how their works are crafted.Elaborate works such as a locally crafted Haida mask and print by Ben Davidson. PHOTOS: RIGHT, ALL ABOUT U; LEFT, JASON SHAFTOYou’ll need a car or bike to explore Haida Gwaii’s art scene. The 113-kilometre primary road that stretches south to north on Haida Gwaii’s Graham Island – the archipelago’s largest and most northerly island – meanders through five small communities: Queen Charlotte, Tlell, Skidegate, Port Clements and Masset. All of them are home to galleries and studios owned and operated by local artisans and heritage societies. It’s a feast of varied works – paintings, sculpture and jewelry and everything from nature photography and watercolour portraits to knitwear and installation art. Following the road, which runs alongside the island’s rocky shoreline before heading inland to the farmland of Port Clements, offers visitors insight into the natural world reflected in the works of local artists. In Tlell, the Crystal Cabin Gallery is full-to-the-brim with scavenged minerals from the nearby forest and beaches. Across the road, Sitka Studio sells coffee, books and cards from a two-storey wood cabin. There is also a treasure trove of art to be found in the interpretive centre gift shop at the Village of Masset’s Delkatla Wildlife Sanctuary – with the migratory bird refuge and marshlands portrayed in many of the shop’s paintings and cards. A decade ago, painter Sheila Karrow moved to the island from Waterloo, Ontario, bringing her practice with her. What attracted her was the nature, the pristineness of it all, she says. You really are in another world. Karrow paints tidal pools and old growth forest from her studio in the Village of Queen Charlotte, perched on 3rd Avenue and boasting a view of the ocean and gardens below.Karrow is among the artists whose works can be found at the All About U Arts gallery. Proprietor Ben Davidson – the son of one of Canada’s most renowned Haida artists, Robert Davidson – is a world-renowned artist and carver in his own right. He has brought his success home through the gallery, which he opened three years ago. He says prior to opening All About U, We used to send this calibre of work off-island.Today, however, with initiatives like the online directory encouraging more visitors, including art lovers, to come to Haida Gwaii, more purchases are being made locally. It’s great for small communities, and for [artists] off the beaten path, says Davidson.Great for visitors too.Pull Quote:  Elaborate works such as a locally crafted Haida ceremonial canoe, mask and print by Ben Davidson  (pictured below) as well as fine art by residents such as painter Sheila Karrow (forest canvas, centre below) are available for commission or purchase on Haida Gwaii at artist studios and galleries such as All About U Arts in Skidegate.