Is it just me, or is it getting Cold War-y in here?With the wistful Russian President Vladimir Putin currently reviving East-West tensions as he croons Those Were the Days – Boy the way Joe Stalin played … guys like us, we had it made – there lingers an appreciation among filmmakers for the Iron Curtain era. This can be good (in the case of 2006’s spy-thriller The Good Shepherd), bad (think of K-19: The Widowmaker, a sub flub from 2002 in which Harrison Ford’s Russian accent was hit and missile) or entertainingly in-between. Who can forget Rocky IV, the mid-eighties boxing melodrama from Sylvester Stallone that was directly responsible for the career of Dolph Lundgren and the fall of the Berlin Wall?At the Toronto International Film Festival this year, a pair of features revisit the Cold War, but have nothing to do with spies and launch codes. Ed Zwick’s Pawn Sacrifice dramatizes the match of the century, which was the ballyhooed 1972 world chess championship between the American challenger Bobby Fischer (played by Tobey Maguire) and the USSR’s reigning international champion, Boris Spassky (Liev Schreiber).On the documentary front, with Red Army, the American Gabe Polsky attempts to explain what was possibly the greatest hockey squad ever assembled: The Soviet national side of the late 1970s and early ’80s.Just as there is an obvious inherent drama to Cold War film plots, the international sports played during the chilly political era benefited tremendously from the intrigue, emotion and sense of theatre being raised to the best possible heights.The difference between sport and film is that the latter can travel back in time easily. But sport? No, it is always stuck in the present. As such, when the Iron Curtain was raised, the Soviet athletes were demystified and the high drama of East-West athletics was over. International chess is barely a blip on the radar any more, and Soviet hockey players long ago followed the spies in from the cold.Whether it was hockey or ballet, it was beautiful to watch and it was intimidating, says Red Army director Polsky, about an age when the world was clearly divided in two. The Soviets seemed to be dominating. It sent a clear message to North Americans, and it was scary.Moscow absolutely used sport for propaganda purposes, but the Americans weren’t above jingoism themselves. When Fischer was embraced by the public, suddenly he was seen as the gladiator on behalf of the West, against the great Soviet Bear, says Pawn Sacrifice director Zwick. He began to get the attention of various people within the government and elsewhere, who then took him on as an avatar.In both films, the adversaries are East-West based, with their respective styles of play representing the political and social ideologies of their home countries. Soviet hockey players worked collectively and in a controlled manner, within five-man units whose Army-officer pucksters took more pride in their ability to pass than to shoot. North American players, on the other hand, were freewheeling and free-spirited, often given to solo rushes.As for chess, it wasn’t so black-and-white. But the young Fischer was nothing if not idiosyncratic, while the sweater-vest-wearing Spassky was the measured, unreadable product of a stoic, poker-faced nation.That being said, the psyches and politics of the competitors weren’t as East-versus-West as the media and propagandists made them out to be. Fischer, for example, admired the Soviets’ chess infrastructure, while Spassky was a sportsman who eventually moved to Paris and represented France in three Olympiads. As for the Red Army players, yes they were patriots, but they played for the love of the game and were eager to compete in North America.For them it wasn’t about the politics, says Polsky, who interviewed the Red Army captain and eventual NHLer Slava Fetisov extensively. (The director also leaned on The Red Machine, a 1990 book on the history of Russian hockey written by Globe and Mail columnist Lawrence Martin, who appears in the film.) They were incredibly passionate about what they did on the ice and the Soviet style of play. To them it was fun, and they wanted to be the best.Wanted to be the best, just like Lundgren’s Ivan Drago, who at the beginning of Rocky IV is the villainous Soviet pawn and machine, but who by the end of the film makes clear he is his own man. I win for me, he declares. For me!Putin’s shenanigans aside, the mostly curtain-less state of the world makes for duller international sport. People forcing themselves to get all worked up over this summer’s FIFA World Cup proves that we miss, on some level, all that Cold Warring.Some blame Mikhail Gorbachev and glasnost for the lessening of the drama, but Rocky Balboa was just as much a troublemaker. During this fight, I’ve seen a lot of changing, the way yous feel about me, and in the way I felt about you, the red-white-and-blued boxer told a Russian audience. I guess what I’m trying to say is that if I can change, and you can change, everybody can change!Things did change. No more good guys, no more bad guys, and the best drama of international athletics now lives on only on the screen. For the best, one must think. Red Army has its final TIFF screening on Sept. 10 at 11:45 a.m. (Bloor Hot Docs Cinema), while Pawn Sacrifice is presented on Sept. 11 at 6:30 p.m. (Roy Thomson Hall), Sept. 12 at 3 p.m. (Ryerson Theatre) and Sept. 14 at 6:30 p.m. (Scotiabank 1);tiff.net.