IF TODAY IS YOUR BIRTHDAYThe more you help other people the more you will help yourself. That has always been true but over the coming 12 months it will become obvious on a much higher level that your fate is bound up with the fates of those around you. Strive to do good.ARIES (March 21 - April 20):As Jupiter moves into the most dynamic area of your chart on Wednesday there is plenty you can do to further your creative potential. Try to be more light-hearted than you have been of late. The idea is to have fun.TAURUS (April 21 - May 21):By all means turn down a social invitation in order to spend more time with someone you are close to emotionally. According to the planets this person is feeling a bit neglected and it’s your responsibility to do something about it.GEMINI (May 22 - June 21):Whatever you choose to do over the next few days life will be anything but dull. You’re a social animal by nature, so dress up and hit the town. Put serious matters out of your mind – for you it’s now party season.CANCER (June 22 - July 23):Jupiter moves out of your birth sign this week but the area of your chart it moves into governs what you own and what you earn and could bring a new source of income. Try not to squander any extra cash on things you don’t really need.LEO (July 24 - Aug. 23):You will be feeling at one with the world over the next few days, thanks to the beneficial effect of Jupiter moving into your sign. The only danger is that you could become a bit too laid-back and let others take advantage of you.VIRGO (Aug. 24 - Sept. 23):If someone comes to you with a sob story this week you will, unusually, be ready to listen and maybe even to help. But you must still keep your wits about you because there will always be serious con artists out there.LIBRA (Sept. 24 - Oct. 23):Over the next few days you will rediscover your talent for getting people working together as a team. As Libra is a cardinal sign you usually like to take the lead but on this occasion you will be content to be one among many.SCORPIO (Oct. 24 - Nov. 22):Someone important will take you under their wing over the next few days and show you how to make the most of your talents. What you learn from them in the weeks and months ahead is sure to bring fame and fortune.SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 23 - Dec. 21):Someone new will come into your life this week and before you know it you will be the best of friends. It’s even possible that, in time, you will become more than friends, but even if there is an attraction there don’t rush things.CAPRICORN (Dec. 22 - Jan. 20):It’s time to sort out a money matter or business issue that has been causing you sleepless nights. There is no point getting angry or making threats because that will only make matters worse. If you are reasonable others will be reasonable too.AQUARIUS (Jan. 21 - Feb. 19):Don’t worry if a relationship has been a bit strained of late because now that Jupiter is moving into your opposite sign of Leo you can easily be friends again. Whatever differences you may have they are petty in the extreme, so ignore them.PISCES (Feb. 20 - Mar. 20):Jupiter, planet of expansion, moves into the most practical area of your chart this week, so focus on everyday matters and make sure that each and every time you exert yourself you balance it with plenty of rest. Your health is important.Visit Sally at www.sallybrompton.comFor your extended forecast, call 1-900-783-8333, or 1-877-976-1414 for credit-card access. Calls cost $1.49 per minute.