Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. raised nthe price range on its initial public offering to $66 to $68 (U.S.) on Monday, nreflecting strong demand from investors for the year’s most anticipated debut nand potentially the world’s largest-ever IPO.The Chinese e-commerce company, which handles more transactions than nAmazon.com Inc. and eBay Inc. combined, has attracted investors keen to buy ninto the country’s rapid growth and its evolving Internet sector.The company and selling shareholders will now raise almost $22-billion at the ntop of the new IPO range. Alibaba nremains on track to set an IPO record if underwriters exercise an option to sell nadditional shares to meet demand, overtaking Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.’s n$22.1-billion listing in 2010.Alibaba embarked on its roadshow nfor the IPO last week and attracted enough demand to cover its entire deal nwithin two days, people familiar with the process said last week. Trading is nexpected to kick off this week.The company and some shareholders previously offered 320.1 million American ndepositary shares at an initial $60 to $66 indicative range. It raised the price non Monday but left the number of shares unchanged.Alibaba can still decide to price nits IPO above the indicated range. But a source close to the deal told Reuters nthe final level will be investor-friendly.Demand has been overwhelming since the launch, said the person, who ncouldn’t be named because details of the IPO aren’t yet public. Increasing the nprice range was already on the cards from the beginning.Reuters reported on Friday that Alibaba plans nto close its IPO order book early, after it received enough orders to sell all nthe shares in the record-breaking offering.OVERSEAS EXPANSIONAlibaba plans to expand its nbusiness in the United States and Europe after the much anticipated IPO, nbillionaire founder Jack Ma said on Monday as the Chinese e-commerce titan npitched its record deal to investors in Asia.After being listed in the U.S., we will develop our business in Europe and nin the U.S., Ma told a packed group of journalists ahead of his presentation to ninvestors. We will not give up the Asia market because, as I would say, we are nnot a company from China, we are an Internet company that happened to be in nChina.The investor luncheon took place in a huge venue at the luxury Ritz Carlton nhotel. The hotel shares the same building as three of the main bookrunners of the IPO, just an elevator ride away nfrom Credit Suisse, Deutsche Bank and Morgan Stanley offices, across the nharbor from the city’s financial center.Fund managers and analysts were given orange bracelets to give them access to nthe banquet of smoked salmon, chicken breast and mango pudding. The event had ntwo videos and a question and answer session with Ma answering most of the nquestions, according to investors at the presentation.MISSED OPPORTUNITYAlibaba picked New York for its ndebut after Hong Kong officials rejected its nrequest to allow a small group of company insiders to nominate the majority of nits board.The request went against Hong Kong’s one nshare, one vote principle, which has been staunchly defended by its securities nregulator.Ma, who is also Alibaba’s nexecutive chairman, said that the missed opportunity came about in part because nof how Alibaba communicated its plans to nlocal authorities, mirroring statements he gave last year.People say that Hong Kong lost nthe Alibaba deal. To me, I think it is nAlibaba that missed this great nopportunity to list in Hong Kong, Ma nadded. We love Hong Kong. We will continue to love nHong Kong and invest in Hong Kong.The company is expected to price the deal on Sept. 18. It will start trading na day later