IF TODAY IS YOUR BIRTHDAYYou will be highly sociable over the coming year, which is great, but that doesn’t mean you have to be available to your friends every hour of every day. Earmark an afternoon each week when you can be alone with your thoughts and feelings.ARIES (March 21 - April 20):Don’t give others the impression that you agree with them when, if anything, you think they are completely and utterly wrong. The full moon means it’s best if they know right from the start what you really think and feel.TAURUS (April 21 - May 21):This could be a tense weekend as family and work colleagues seem less than friendly for no obvious reason. Don’t worry about it. Most likely it has nothing to do with you. Most likely it’s just the full moon getting them down. It will pass.GEMINI (May 22 - June 21):Push ahead with your plans this weekend and let employers and other important people know that you are serious about moving up in the world. A rival may try to persuade you that you are aiming too high but you must not believe them.CANCER (June 22 - July 23):You won’t want to stay in one place or with one group of people over the next 48 hours. It does not matter what chores and duties need to be done, leave them until you are more in the mood. Be free to come and go as you please.LEO (July 24 - Aug. 23):You may be a bit short of cash this weekend but you have only yourself to blame. If you are honest you will admit you have been rather extravagant of late. Take it as a gentle reminder that you need to get your financial house in order.VIRGO (Aug. 24 - Sept. 23):The full moon in your sign this weekend means you need to pay more attention to what partners and loved ones are up to. Have you been neglecting them of late? If so, make an effort to spend some quality time with them now.LIBRA (Sept. 24 - Oct. 23):You must put your own interests first this weekend, because if you allow others to persuade you that their needs are more important you will lose out in a big way. It won’t hurt to be a bit more suspicious than usual.SCORPIO (Oct. 24 - Nov. 22):Tomorrow’s full moon warns you need to be careful when talking about your plans. The more information you give away the more likely it is that rivals will steal your ideas. What happened to that secretive Scorpio we all know and love?SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 23 - Dec. 21):Dealings with employers and other important people could be a bit touch and go over the next couple of days. Was it something you said? Remember, what sounds like a good joke to you could be taken as a personal insult by others.CAPRICORN (Dec. 22 - Jan. 20):Do you continue with a project that is taking up so much time and energy, or do you end it and move on to something else? Don’t make any final decisions this weekend. You may be too close to the situation to make a rational choice.AQUARIUS (Jan. 21 - Feb. 19):Sacrifices of one sort or another will have to be made over the next few days. You will also have to accept that you are going to have less cash in your pocket for a while. But money doesn’t make you happy – right?PISCES (Feb. 20 - Mar. 20):Because tomorrow’s full moon occurs in your opposite sign partners and loved ones and work colleagues may be a bit touchy over the next few days. Make sure you don’t react in kind. The moment you do it means they have won.Visit Sally at www.sallybrompton.comFor your extended forecast, call 1-900-783-8333, or 1-877-976-1414 for credit-card access. Calls cost $1.49 per minute.