Dolphins 33, Patriots 20Miami Gardens, Fla. Knowshon Moreno rushed for 134 yards and a touchdown, Ryan Tannehill threw for two scores and the Dolphins overpowered New England after halftime. The Dolphins (1-0) outscored New England 23-0 in the second half. The Dolphins’ defence made four sacks, all in the second half, and recovered two fumbles. It was New England’s first loss in an opener since 2003, and marks the first time the Patriots (0-1) will not be at least tied for the AFC East lead since Week 3 of 2012.Falcons 37, Saints 34 (OT)Atlanta Matt Bryant kicked a 51-yard field goal on the final play of regulation, then booted a 52-yarder in overtime to give the Atlanta Falcons a 37-34 victory over the New Orleans Saints. In another thriller between the NFC South rivals Sunday, Matt Ryan threw for a franchise-record 448 yards, leading the Falcons to just their fourth victory over the Saints in the past 17 meetings. This one was particularly sweet for Atlanta (1-0), coming off a miserable 4-12 season, its first losing campaign since 2007.Steelers 30, Browns 27Pittsburgh Shaun Suisham drilled a 41-yard field goal as time expired. The Steelers blew a 24-point halftime lead as the Browns rallied behind quarterback Brian Hoyer, but escaped thanks to some great plays from Ben Roethlisberger and wide receiver Markus Wheaton.Roethlisberger hit Wheaton twice on the winning drive, including a 20-yarder that put Suisham in range to send the Browns to their 10th straight season-opening loss. Roethlisberger passed for 365 yards and a TD.Eagles 34, Jaguars 17Philadelphia Nick Foles threw a 68-yard touchdown pass to Jeremy Maclin in the fourth quarter and the Eagles rallied from a 17-0 second-half deficit. Chad Henne threw two touchdown passes to rookie Allen Hurns in the first quarter and the Jaguars (0-1) dominated the defending NFC East champion Eagles (1-0) in the first two quarters.Texans 17, Redskins 6Houston Rookie Alfred Blue blocked a punt and returned it for a touchdown and J.J. Watt lived up to his massive new contract to help the Texans snap a 14-game losing streak. The Texans led 7-6 after a 76-yard touchdown reception by DeAndre Hopkins in the second quarter. Blue blocked Washington’s punt on the next drive and returned it five yards for a touchdown to push the lead to 14-6 in Bill O’Brien’s first game as an NFL head coach. Robert Griffin III threw for 267 yards, but Washington was done in by two second-half fumbles in Jay Gruden’s debut as an NFL head coach.Bengals 23, Ravens 16Baltimore A.J. Green caught a 77-yard touchdown pass from Andy Dalton, and the Bengals blew a 15-point lead before bouncing back.Vikings 34, Rams 6St. Louis Wide receiver Cordarrelle Patterson ran for 102 yards on three carries with a 67-yard scoring run off a simple pitchout and the Vikings opened impressively under new coach Mike Zimmer. The Rams handled Adrian Peterson, limiting the star runner to 75 yards on 21 carries. They had zero luck with Patterson, who had three touchdowns rushing as a rookie. Rams QB Shaun Hill lasted one half as the stand-in starter for Sam Bradford, missing the rest of the game with a thigh injury.Titans 26, Chiefs 10Kansas City Jake Locker threw for 266 yards and two touchdowns, while Alex Smith was intercepted three times. Locker picked apart a defence that lost linebacker Derrick Johnson and defensive tackle Mike DeVito to Achilles tendon injuries. Locker was 22 of 33 and found eight targets, including former Chiefs wide receiver Dexter McCluster.Kendall Wright and Delanie Walker had TD catches for the Titans, and Ryan Succop was perfect on four field-goal attempts against the team that released him last weekend.Jets 19, Raiders 14East Rutherford, N.J. Chris Ivory burst through a few tackle attempts for a 71-yard touchdown run midway through the fourth quarter, and the Jets’ defence clamped down on Oakland rookie quarterback Derek Carr. With still a one-score game, Ivory rushed up the middle and appeared stopped, but slipped a few would-be tacklers on his way to the end zone. A two-point conversion failed, but the Jets held on to win their season opener. The Jets sent the Raiders to their 14th straight loss in the Eastern time zone.Panthers 20, Buccaneers 14Tampa Derek Anderson filled in nicely for injured Cam Newton, throwing for 230 yards and two touchdowns Sunday to lead the Carolina Panthers to a 20-14 victory over the Tampa Bay Buccaneers.Despite rallying with two late TDs, it was an ugly debut for the Bucs (0-1) under coach Lovie Smith.