Ontario’s Auditor-General is going to review private security contracts for nthe 2015 Pan American Games as concerns mount over the costs of these deals.An all-party committee of the legislature voted on Wednesday to ask Bonnie nLysyk to conduct a value-for-money audit on security contracts for the games, nwhich will take place in Toronto and other communities in Southern Ontario.We will be looking at anything that has private-sector contract ninvolvement, said Ms. Lysyk, who hopes her report will be issued early in the nfall.The directive by the legislative committee comes nearly three weeks after the nprovince announced that Vancouver-based Contemporary Security Canada (CSC), a nsubsidiary of a U.S. company, had been awarded an $81-million contract to nprovide private security at the Games.The opposition criticized the deal when it was revealed that the bid from nanother finalist, Toronto-based Reilly Security, was $14-million lower.As well, the province did not make public that the CSC contract is only for nassisting the Ontario Provincial Police-led Integrated Security Unit around the nperimeter of venues at the games. First reported by The Globe and Mail, the Pan nAm organizing committee has begun the bidding process for a security contract to nprotect buildings and other structures within the venues. It will be awarded nlater this year.The organizing committee has declined to say how much has been allocated for nthe second contract, although Ontario Tourism Minister Michael Chan said last nmonth that the overall security budget for the Pan Am games had increased to n$239-million, more than double the original estimate of $113-million.Ms. Lysyk said on Wednesday that she will examine both contracts. As well, nthe audit will review the format used to rank companies that submitted bids. We nwill look at the process that was used. We are also aware that, on the first ncontract that has been awarded, there was a fairness opinion given, so we’ll nlook at the fairness opinion given by the fairness monitor, Ms. Lysyk said.Paul Miller, NDP critic for Sport, Tourism and Culture, said the audit is nneeded to clear up what he suggested has been a lack of specific information nfrom the Liberal government about security costs. How did it go from n[$113-million to $239-million]? Mr. Miller asked.He also said he was not aware a bidding process had started on a second nprivate security contract. This is the first I heard of it, Mr. Miller said. nI thought security was security. I didn’t know there were different nlevels.Meanwhile, the scoring method the province used in awarding the $81-million ncontract to CSC was weighted in such a fashion that the company could have bid nas much as $111-million and still been selected, according to a mathematical nanalysis conducted by a professor at McMaster University in Hamilton.The price bidders submitted made up 40 per cent of the final score for each nfinalist. The money amount was not given a proportionate weight, suggested nMichael Soltys, a professor in McMaster’s computing and software department (Mr. nSoltys is also a consultant for a company that is owned by Reilly Security).CSC has a lengthy track record providing private security at athletic events, nincluding the Vancouver Winter Olympics in 2010. Several senior employees have nserved on Olympic organizing committees.The provincial Community Safety minister, Yasir Naqvi, said in a statement nissued on Wednesday that the Liberal government is committed to making the Pan nAm games the most open and transparent ever. We welcome the Auditor-General’s nreview and will assist in any way possible, he said.With a report from Adrian nMorrow