THE TAYLORLOCATION: LeslievilleBUILDER/DEVELOPER Streetcar DevelopmentsSIZE 460 square feet to more than 1,500 square feetPRICE Mid-$200,000s to the mid-$700,000sSALES CENTRE 43 Davies Ave., north of Queen Street. Open Monday to Thursday from noon to 6 p.m.; weekends and holidays from noon to 5 p.m.CONTACT Phone 416-690-8588 or visit taylorlofts.caStreetcar Developments is bringing a new low-rise project to the Dundas/Carlaw crossroads that will keep fees low by limiting amenities, while placing it in an amenities-rich condo cluster.Called The Taylor, the development will offer lofts starting from the mid-$200,000s.It’s a true mid-rise building – seven storeys with a great gym facility … and with that exception it’s an amenity-free building, so the fees are kept nice and low, says vice-president of sales and marketing, Harley Nakelsky.You’re a 10-minute drive – or a 15-minute bus ride – to downtown Toronto and you’re not paying anywhere near downtown Toronto prices. So this is a great deal for someone who wants to live in a real, residential neighbourhood very close to downtown and have really easy access to the DVP, Gardiner and shopping in all directions.The location has already proven popular as the infill site at 1220 Dundas St. E, just east of Carlaw Avenue, is right next door to another Streetcar residence with public event space, including a 200-seat venue for Crow’s Theatre, that will be completed a year before The Taylor is ready for occupancy in spring, 2016.We’re adding a great theatre … which is the largest theatre east of the DVP, and to support that, there will be a restaurant and lobby bar, Mr. Nakelsky adds. It’s in the building next door, not in your building, so you can use it and enjoy or stay further away.Other cultural fixtures range from film studios, independent cafés, shops and galleries to major supermarkets, specialty food stores and Farmers’ Market.Lesliveille has grown in the last seven years, with some of the best restaurants in town in the area and great shopping, adds Mr. Nakelsky, whose office is five-minutes from the property, which is also steps to parks, trails and beaches.On the north side … you overlook the neighbourhood trees and houses, which is very nice … and on the south side, depending on how high you are, you can see the downtown, city view.To complement the urban streetscape, Tact Architecture designed the building’s precast, concrete façade with a red-brown, painted wood effect. Carlaw used to have a lot of warehouses turned into condominiums and businesses, Mr. Nakelsky notes.This is a new construction project, so you get all the benefits of a new building – like new codes, pipes and Tarion warranties, which makes it a very secure purchase – but it has the look in keeping with the neighbourhood.The mid-rise will accommodate commercial space and 96 open concept suites with one- to two-bedroom plus den plans, plus a small collection of three-bedroom townhouses with two floors and private courtyard space.They all have balconies or terrace spaces and we try to maximize light wherever we can, adds Mr. Nakelsky.There are big floor-to-ceiling windows and plans don’t have things like columns blocking windows. And the way we set it up, we don’t keep the kitchen too far from the windows.Interior finishes will be contemporary, showcasing exposed-concrete ceilings nine feet above, engineered hardwood floors and kitchens with quartz counters, porcelain backsplashes, under-mounted sinks and integrated appliances.